# Dataset Discovery and Exploration: State-of-the-art, Challenges, and Opportunities



This repository contains the Python Notebooks
which illustrate the techniques and strategies discussed in the tutorial named
"Dataset Discovery and Exploration: State-of-the-art, Challenges, and Opportunities," 
set to be presented at EDBT 2024. The tutorial examines four key functionalities of dataset discovery and exploration:

This repository hosts the Python Notebooks that bring to life the methodologies and 
approaches covered in the tutorial titled 
"Dataset Discovery and Exploration: State-of-the-art, Challenges, and Opportunities,"
scheduled for presentation at EDBT 2024. We also included the slides in this repo.
The 4 dataset discovery and exploration functionalities reviewed in the tutorial are:

- **Dataset Discovery.**
- **Dataset Navigation.**
- **Dataset Annotation.**
- **Schema Inference.**

As an example of how the four functionalities of data discovery and exploration work in practice,
this repository includes the following frameworks, or parts of them:
- **D3L [1] - Dataset Discovery.**
- **Aurum [2] - Dataset Navigation.**
- **TableMiner+ [3] - Dataset Annotation.**
- **Starmie [4] - Schema Inference.**



**NOTE:SEMPROP[5] is the currently implemented core function of Aurum. Our version is the simplified version
based on the description in Aurum [2].**

[1] A. Bogatu, A. A. A. Fernandes, N. W. Paton and N. Konstantinou, "Dataset Discovery in Data Lakes," 
2020 IEEE 36th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), Dallas, TX, USA, 2020, pp. 709-720, doi: 10.1109/ICDE48307.2020.00067.

[2] R. Castro Fernandez, Z. Abedjan, F. Koko, G. Yuan, S. Madden and M. Stonebraker, "Aurum: A Data Discovery System," 
2018 IEEE 34th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), Paris, France, 2018, pp. 1001-1012, doi: 10.1109/ICDE.2018.00094. 

[3] Zhang, Ziqi. “Effective and efficient Semantic Table Interpretation using TableMiner+.” Semantic Web 8 (2017): 921-957.

[4] Grace Fan, Jin Wang, Yuliang Li, Dan Zhang, and Renée J. Miller. 2023. Semantics-Aware Dataset Discovery from Data Lakes with Contextualized Column-Based Representation Learning. 
Proc. VLDB Endow. 16, 7 (March 2023), 1726–1739.

[5] R. Castro Fernandez et al., "Seeping Semantics: Linking Datasets Using Word Embeddings for Data Discovery," 2018 IEEE 34th International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), 
Paris, France, 2018, pp. 989-1000, doi: 10.1109/ICDE.2018.00093.


## Dataset Overview
This project utilizes structured data derived from the Web Data Commons project, focusing on:

- **T2Dv2 Gold Standard for Matching Web Tables to DBpedia**: 108 tables from 9 entity classes. [Link](https://webdatacommons.org/webtables/goldstandardV2.html).
- **Schema.org Table Corpus 2023**: 92 tables from 8 entity classes. [Link](https://webdatacommons.org/structureddata/schemaorgtables/2023/index.html#toc3).

Modifications are applied to the Schema.org Table Corpus data, which include:
- Conversion from JSON to CSV format for easier processing and analysis.
- Flattening of nested JSON structures (e.g., address objects) to create clear, tabular data with columns.

The datasets have been uploaded to this project as `Datasets.zip`. Simply extract this file in the current folder to access the data.



## Prerequisites
### Requirements (follows the requirement of all included framework)
- **Python 3.7.10 or higher.**
All needed packages are specified in requirement.txt.


This repo includes all the D3L and Starmie in the framework. If you would like to download the original framework please go to the Origin framework, which
includes the D3L and Starmie as submodules.

Ensure you have the following installed:
- Python 3.7+ (Better to use Python 3.11)
- Jupyter Notebook
### Installation

Clone the repository to your local machine:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/PierreWoL/EDBTDemo
```
Install required packages.
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Unzip the datasets.
```bash
unzip Datasets.zip
```
## Optional steps

**Subject Column Detection in TableMiner+**: This section needs to use the Google api for Google Custom Search
Engine, you can build your own engine via [Here](https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/intl/en_uk/about/). After setting the engine, in webSearchAPI.py, **cse_id** and **my_api_key** are needed to be changed.  
Currently, we use the parameter **SearchingWeb** 
TableColumnAnnotation class in TableAnnotation.py to disable the web search function in the Notebook.

In schema inference part, embeddings first needs to be generated by Starmie. If you have CUDA, feel free to run 
```bash
./starmie/cmd.sh
```
to generate the embeddings.
We also uploaded a sample embedding file for the datasets.


## Copyright and License Notice
This project incorporates data used under the **Apache License 2.0**. We respect all original data copyrights and license requirements and share our work on this basis.

## Citation
If you are using the code in this repo, please cite the following in your work:
```bibtex
Norman W. Paton, Zhenyu Wu, Dataset Discovery and Exploration: State-of-the-art, Challenges and Opportunities. 
Proceedings 27th International Conference on Extending Database Technology (EDBT), pp. 854–857, 2024. 
https://openproceedings.org/2024/conf/edbt/tutorial-3.pdf
```
